In recent years, universities have become increasingly business-oriented. In the past, universities were places of education and research, and places for the pursuit of knowledge, but now many universities are influenced by business thinking. In this paper, we consider the background of this phenomenon and its impact. One of the factors that has led universities to become business-oriented is financial issues. Many universities are struggling to raise funds, and a business-like mindset is becoming necessary to maintain the quality of education and research. In addition, universities are becoming more competitive, and it is said that management methods need to be introduced to increase the number of students and research results. Another reason for universities becoming business-oriented is the importance of collaboration with industry and industry-academia collaboration. Universities are required to build partnerships with industry and enhance education and research by earning revenue through industry-academia collaboration. Such collaboration with society not only increases the university&#39;s revenue, but also makes it possible to contribute to society. On the other hand, there are concerns about universities becoming business-oriented. If education and research become influenced by business purposes, academic freedom and academic bias may occur. There is also concern that issues related to the quality of education and students&#39; education will be overlooked. In this way, the background and impact of universities becoming business-oriented can be considered from various angles. While the introduction of a business mindset by universities is an effective means of raising funds and strengthening competitiveness, a balance must be maintained in order to maintain the quality of education and research. In the future, new approaches may be required to balance a business orientation with the quality of education and research. In summary, universities are becoming more and more business-oriented.