Studying in a same-sex school is a unique way of learning, and some people believe that the effect of studying in a same-sex school is better than that of a mixed school. However, there is a lot of controversy about whether students learn better in a same-sex school. In this article, we will explore this topic, analyze the advantages and disadvantages of studying in a same-sex school, and give my opinion. First of all, those who support same-sex schooling believe that studying in a same-sex school can reduce sexism and gender stereotypes and create a more equal learning environment. In a same-sex school, students will not be pressured and influenced by the opposite sex, they can express themselves more freely, and avoid the problem of gender role stereotyping. In addition, students in a same-sex school may be more likely to establish friendships with classmates of the same sex, which helps to form a closer social network. In addition, those who support same-sex schooling believe that students in a same-sex school are more likely to focus on learning and improve their academic performance. Studies have shown that students in same-sex schools usually perform better academically because they do not have the interference and communication of the opposite sex and can focus more on learning. In addition, the educational methods in same-sex schools are often more targeted and better able to meet the needs of students. However, there are also people who oppose same-sex schooling. They believe that studying in same-sex schools will deprive students of the opportunity to interact with the opposite sex in real society, affecting their social skills and adaptability. In addition, there may be a lack of complementarity between the genders in same-sex schools, limiting students&#39; vision and understanding. In general, studying in same-sex schools may cause some adverse effects. From my point of view, studying in same-sex schools has its advantages and disadvantages. Studying in a same-sex school can indeed reduce some gender issues and study pressure and improve students&#39; learning outcomes. However, I think studying in a mixed school is more conducive to the all-round development of students. In a mixed school, students can better adapt to society and establish friendships and cooperative relationships with people of different genders. The educational methods of mixed schools are also more diverse and can better meet the needs of students. In short, studying in same-sex schools is a special way of learning, which has its advantages and disadvantages. Although studying in a same-sex school has its unique features, I think studying in a mixed school is more conducive to students&#39; all-round development.