In today&#39;s digital age, smartphones have become one of the indispensable tools in our lives. Especially for students, smartphones are not only an entertainment tool, but also a powerful learning aid. Therefore, I think schools should allow students to use smartphones in school. First of all, smartphones can help students learn more efficiently. On their mobile phones, students can download various learning applications and tools, such as language learning applications, math problem solving applications, etc. These applications can help students solve problems more conveniently and quickly in their studies. At the same time, smartphones can also help students learn anytime and anywhere, such as on the bus, at home, etc., students can use fragmented time to study. Secondly, smartphones can also help students get information better. In class, students can use their mobile phones to search for relevant materials at any time, find more detailed information, and help themselves better understand the knowledge points. In addition, students can also communicate with teachers and classmates through their mobile phones, discuss problems, and promote learning. In addition, smartphones can help students better manage their study plans. Through the calendar and reminder functions on their mobile phones, students can record important information such as course schedules and homework deadlines, and remind themselves to complete their learning tasks in time. In this way, students can better arrange their time in their studies and lives and improve their learning efficiency. However, some people believe that schools should prohibit students from using smartphones in class because they will distract students. But in fact, teachers can prevent students from overusing mobile phones during class through stricter management measures. For example, it can be stipulated that mobile phones can only be used during specific time periods, or the use of social media applications can be prohibited. In this way, students will be more focused when using mobile phones in school and will not be easily distracted by their phones. In summary, I think schools should allow students to use smartphones in school. As a powerful learning aid, smartphones can help students learn, obtain information and manage study plans more efficiently. At the same time, schools can also use reasonable management measures to prevent students from abusing mobile phones in class. Therefore, allowing students to use smartphones in school is beneficial to students&#39; learning and development.