Since the beginning of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has spread all over the world, causing profound impacts on the education systems of countries around the world. This article will explore in detail the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global education system. First, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced educational institutions to take emergency measures, such as closing schools and switching to online teaching. This measure has led to a reduction in face-to-face communication between students and teachers, and some students may feel lonely and unmotivated, while teachers also need to adapt to online teaching. Although online courses are convenient for students and teachers, there are also some problems, such as unstable network connections and insufficient equipment, which lead to poor learning effects. Secondly, the COVID-19 pandemic has brought financial pressure to the global education system. Due to the economic downturn caused by the epidemic, some countries have reduced their investment in the education sector, resulting in insufficient educational resources, lack of school facilities and teachers, and affecting the quality of education. At the same time, the epidemic has also spawned the online education market, and some educational institutions have turned to online education, intensifying the competitive pressure on traditional educational institutions. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has also promoted changes in the education system. In order to adapt to the needs of epidemic prevention and control, some countries have begun to promote hybrid education, that is, a teaching model that combines online and offline. This teaching model can improve the flexibility and adaptability of teaching, enabling students to better master knowledge and skills. At the same time, the epidemic has also promoted the development of educational technology. Technologies such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence are being applied in the field of education, changing the traditional teaching model. Finally, the impact of the new crown pneumonia epidemic is also reflected in the international cooperation of the education system. The epidemic has restricted educational exchanges and cooperation between countries. Some international students are unable to study abroad due to the epidemic, which has caused a shock to the international education market. At the same time, some international education exchange programs have been postponed or cancelled, affecting the connectivity of the global education system. In summary, the new crown pneumonia epidemic has had a profound impact on the global education system.