Should universities provide accommodations for students with disabilities? Students with disabilities face many difficulties in a college education. Many wheelchair users are frustrated that campus facilities are not easily accessible. In addition, students with other disabilities may also need additional supports, such as assistive technology or special classroom environments. In this case, providing accommodations to students with disabilities is not only an appropriate move but also a moral obligation. First, universities should provide accommodations for students with disabilities because this helps them gain equal educational opportunities. Universities have a duty by law to ensure that students with disabilities have equal access to education. If universities do not provide suitable accommodation for students with disabilities, this may prevent them from fully participating in their studies. In this case, the university failed to meet its legal responsibilities while also affecting the academic progress of students with disabilities. Second, providing accommodations to students with disabilities also helps promote multiculturalism and inclusion. The university should be a multicultural and inclusive place where every student is given equal rights and respect. Students with disabilities should also have opportunities to participate in various activities, communicate with and learn from other students. If universities do not provide accommodations to students with disabilities, this may limit their opportunities to participate in campus life and impact the inclusivity of the entire school community. Finally, providing accommodations to students with disabilities can also help improve their academic performance and quality of life. Many students with disabilities may require additional supports and special facilities to fully participate in learning activities. If universities provide accommodation to these students, it will be easier for them to receive support and improve their academic performance. At the same time, this will also help improve the quality of life of students with disabilities and allow them to better integrate into society. In general, universities should be for disabled people