Events that led to World War I World War I was one of the most influential and destructive wars of the 20th century. Many events led to the outbreak of this war, some of which came from political, diplomatic, and military conflicts. This article will explore the events that led to the outbreak of World War I. First, an important event that led to World War I was the &quot;Sarajevo Incident&quot;. On June 28, 1914, Prince Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, was assassinated by Serbian nationalists. This incident triggered a series of diplomatic tensions that eventually led to the outbreak of the war. Secondly, the assassination of the Graves was also one of the events that led to the outbreak of World War I. On July 28, 1914, Austrian-Hungarian Prime Minister Karl von Sternberg and his wife were assassinated in Bosnia by Serbian nationalists, Jan Bairuj and his wife. This assassination increased tensions between Austria and Serbia and eventually led to the outbreak of the war. Third, the arms race was also one of the important events that led to the outbreak of World War I. Before the outbreak of the war, European countries participated in a large-scale arms race, trying to safeguard their own interests by increasing their military strength. This arms race led to tensions between countries and eventually led to the outbreak of war. In addition, colonial expansion was also one of the important factors that led to the outbreak of World War I. In the early 20th century, European countries were seeking to expand their colonial territories and use colonial resources to support their economic and military strength. Colonial expansion triggered struggles and competition between countries, which eventually led to the outbreak of war. In general, the events that led to the outbreak of World War I were multifaceted, including politics, diplomacy, military conflicts, assassinations, arms races, and colonial expansion. These events exacerbated tensions between European countries and eventually led to the outbreak of war. The outbreak of World War I was not