Events and experiences that I agree with that lead to the increase of terrorism Terrorism is a phenomenon that threatens global security and stability. In recent years, terrorist attacks have occurred frequently, causing great harm and fear to many countries and people. So, what are the events and experiences that lead to the increase of terrorism? First of all, I think religious extremism is one of the main reasons for the increase of terrorism. Some radical religious organizations use religious beliefs to recruit and manipulate believers to participate in terrorist activities. They incite believers to carry out violent attacks on pagans in order to spread their ideas and beliefs. This radical religious concept has caused many innocent people to suffer and be hurt. Secondly, social inequality and poverty are also one of the factors that lead to the increase of terrorism. In some poor and backward areas, people have a low standard of living, lack basic education and medical resources, and have unstable economic conditions. This inequality and poverty can easily lead people to feel disappointed and desperate, making them vulnerable to recruitment and influence by extremist organizations and participating in terrorist activities. In addition, political turmoil and war are also one of the reasons for the increase of terrorism. Wars and conflicts have been erupting in some regions for a long time, causing a large number of civilian casualties and property losses. Wars, political turmoil and conflicts make people&#39;s living environment unstable and unsafe, creating a breeding ground for extremism and terrorism. Finally, the development of the Internet and social media has also brought new ways for the spread and propaganda of terrorism. Terrorist organizations use the Internet and social media to promote their ideas and concepts, recruit new members, and plan terrorist attacks. At the same time, the Internet and social media also provide individuals with a platform to spread extreme ideas and motivations, making the threat of terrorism more difficult to contain. In general, the events and experiences that lead to the increase of terrorism are diverse. Factors such as religious extremism, social injustice, political conflicts, and the development of Internet technology have combined to make terrorism a global threat.