Why has the divorce rate changed over the past decade? This is a question that has received much attention, and many people are thinking about the reasons. Some people believe that changes in social attitudes have led to the increase in divorce rates, while others believe that economic factors have played an important role. This article will explore these different views and put forward my own views. First, changes in social attitudes may be one of the reasons for the increase in divorce rates. With the development of the times, people&#39;s attitudes towards marriage are also changing. Many people believe that marriage is no longer a lifelong commitment, but a contract that can be terminated at any time. This change in concept may lead to more people choosing divorce because they feel that marriage is no longer an indispensable part of their lives. Secondly, economic factors may also be one of the reasons for the increase in divorce rates. With the development of society, the pressure of life faced by people is also increasing. Many people choose to divorce in order to get rid of financial difficulties and find a better life. In addition, many families rely on the income of both parties to make a living. Once one of the parties loses his job or his income decreases, it may lead to the breakdown of the marriage. In addition, the diversification of society may also lead to the increase in divorce rates. In the past, marriage was mainly based on family background and social status, but now people pay more attention to personal feelings and happiness. Many people choose to divorce because they feel that they and their partners are no longer compatible with each other and cannot live together. This individualistic attitude may lead to more people choosing divorce rather than enduring unhappy marriages. Finally, changes in the legal system may also have an impact on the divorce rate. In the past, divorce was a very difficult matter, requiring cumbersome procedures and costs. Today, many countries have implemented policies to simplify divorce procedures, which has led to more people choosing divorce. In addition, legal protection has also better protected the rights and interests of one party after divorce, which may also prompt more people to choose divorce. In summary, there are many reasons for the increase in divorce rates. Changes in social concepts, economic factors, social diversity and changes in the legal system may all have an impact on the divorce rate.