At present, the connection between universities and business is becoming closer and closer, and universities are becoming more and more commercialized. Many people are worried that this commercialization trend may affect the original purpose and values of universities. This article will explore the reasons why universities have become commercialized and the possible impact. First of all, one of the reasons why universities have become commercialized is due to financial pressure. As government funding for universities continues to decline, universities have begun to look for other sources to obtain funds. Commercialization can bring more funds and resources to help universities improve the quality of education and research. In addition, universities can also obtain more sponsorship and donations through commercialization. Secondly, the development of globalization has also accelerated the commercialization of universities. With the increase in the number of international students and the increase in international cooperation projects, universities need to learn to operate like a business. Business cooperation and international cooperation have become important means for universities to promote development. In addition, universities also need to pay attention to market demand and provide students with more employment opportunities and practical skills. However, the commercialization of universities has also brought some negative effects. First, commercialization may reduce the academic level and independence of universities. Some business-driven universities may pay more attention to making money and ignore the quality of education and research. In addition, commercialization may also cause universities to become a commodity, and education is sold as a commodity. In addition, commercialization may also cause universities to be out of touch with society. Some commercially inclined universities may pay more attention to economic benefits and ignore social responsibilities. Universities should be the source of wisdom for society and should be committed to cultivating talents with a strong sense of social responsibility, rather than focusing only on economic benefits. In summary, the phenomenon that universities are becoming more and more commercialized is due to financial pressure and the development of globalization. Commercialization can bring some benefits, such as more funds and resources, but it may also bring some negative effects, such as lowering academic standards and being out of touch with society. Therefore, universities should maintain their mission and values in the process of commercialization and should not blindly pursue economic benefits. Universities should focus on balancing the relationship between business and academia and cultivate more responsible talents for society.