The events that led to World War I were complex and rooted in a combination of long-term and short-term causes. One of the key long-term causes of the war was the system of alliances that had emerged in Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. These alliances, such as the Triple Entente (France, Russia, and Great Britain) and the Triple Alliance (Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy), created a delicate balance of power that could easily be upset by the actions of one or more of the parties involved.

Another significant long-term cause of World War I was the arms race that took place among the major powers in the years leading up to the war. As each country sought to build up its military strength in order to deter potential enemies, tensions increased and the likelihood of conflict grew.

In addition to these long-term causes, there were also several short-term triggers that helped to set off the chain of events that led to World War I. One of these triggers was the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914. The Archduke's assassination by a Bosnian Serb nationalist set off a series of events that ultimately led to the outbreak of war.

Following the assassination, Austria-Hungary issued an ultimatum to Serbia, blaming the Serbian government for the attack and demanding a number of concessions. When Serbia failed to meet all of Austria-Hungary's demands, Austria-Hungary declared war on Serbia on July 28, 1914. This act of aggression set off a chain reaction of declarations of war by the various alliances and culminated in the outbreak of World War I.

One of the key turning points in the lead-up to World War I was the decision of Germany to declare war on Russia and France. Germany's decision to invade Belgium in order to get to France quickly drew Great Britain into the conflict, as the British had a treaty with Belgium guaranteeing its neutrality. With all of the major powers now involved in the war, the stage was set for four long years of brutal conflict.

In conclusion, the events that led to World War I were the result of a complex interplay of long-term causes, such as the system of alliances and the arms race, and short-term triggers, such as the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand and the subsequent declarations of war. These events set off a chain reaction that ultimately led to one of the deadliest conflicts in human history.