The event that lead to universe war I be complex and root in a combination of long-run and short-run cause . One of the cardinal long-run cause of the war be the system of alliance that have emerge in Europe in the late 19th and early_on twentieth century . These alliance , such as the triple entente ( France , Soviet_Union , and great United_Kingdom ) and the ternary alliance ( Germany , Austria-Hungary , and Italy ) , make a delicate balance of power that could easily be upset by the action of one or more of the party involve . Another significant long-run cause of universe war I be the weaponry race that take topographic_point among the major power in the old_age lead up to the war . As each state seek to construct up its military strength in order to deter potential enemy , tension increase and the likelihood of conflict turn . In addition to these long-run cause , there be besides several short-run gun_trigger that help to put away the chain of event that lead to universe war I . One of these gun_trigger be the character_assassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria-Hungary in Sarajevo on June 28 , 1914 . The archduke 's character_assassination by a Bosnian Serbian patriot put away a series of event that ultimately lead to the outbreak of war . follow the character_assassination , Austria-Hungary publish an ultimatum to Serbia , blame the Serbian government for the attack and demand a number of concession . When Serbia fail to meet all of Austria-Hungary 's demand , Austria-Hungary declare war on Serbia on July 28 , 1914 . This act of aggression put away a chain chemical_reaction of declaration of war by the assorted alliance and culminate in the outbreak of universe war I . One of the cardinal turn point in the lead-up to universe war I be the decision of Germany to declare war on Soviet_Union and France . Germany 's decision to invade Belgium in order to get to France quickly pull great United_Kingdom into the conflict , as the British have a treaty with Belgium guarantee its neutrality . With all of the major power now involve in the war , the phase be put for four long old_age of barbarous conflict . In decision , the event that lead to universe war I be the consequence of a complex interplay of long-run cause , such as the system of alliance and the weaponry race , and short-run gun_trigger , such as the character_assassination of archduke Franz Ferdinand and the subsequent declaration of war . These event put away a chain chemical_reaction that ultimately lead to one of the deadly conflict in human history .