global heating be a press issue that be affect our planet in assorted ways , from rise sea degree to extreme weather event . While there be many lend factor to global heating , one important aspect be the individual Acts_of_the_Apostles that lead to this phenomenon . One significant individual act that lend to global heating be the burning of fossil fuel . dodo fuel , such as coal , oil , and natural gas , be important beginning of energy that power our daily life . however , when these fossil fuel be burn , they let_go_of greenhouse gas such as carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere . These gas trap heat in the Earth 's atmosphere , lead to the heating of the planet . person lend to the burning of fossil fuel through activity such as drive car , use electricity , and heat their home . For example , drive a car that run on gasoline release carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere . similarly , use electricity generate from coal-fired power plant besides lend to the release of greenhouse gas . Another individual act that lead to global heating be deforestation . forest play a crucial function in absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere through photosynthesis . however , when tree be cut down or burn , this stored carbon be let_go_of back into the atmosphere . deforestation be frequently drive by agribusiness , logging , and urban development , all of which be influence by individual choice and consumer demand . individual consumption habit besides play a function in lend to global heating . The production and transportation_system of good lend to greenhouse gas emission , lead to an addition in global heating . For example , the production of meat be a significant subscriber to greenhouse gas emission , as livestock farming produce methane , a potent greenhouse gas . similarly , the production of good such as clothing and electronics necessitate energy and resource , lead to an addition in carbon emission . individual Acts_of_the_Apostles that lead to global heating can besides include uneconomical habit and behavior . For example , a lack of recycle and excessive use of disposable merchandise can lead to an addition in carbon emission . additionally , inefficient use of energy in home and building can besides lend to global heating . In decision , individual Acts_of_the_Apostles play a significant function in lend to global heating . From burn fossil fuel to deforestation and consumption habit , our daily choice and action have a direct impact on the planet . It be important for person to be aware of their carbon footprint and take stairs to reduce their impact on the environment . By make small change in our daily life , we can all work towards extenuate global heating and continue the planet for future coevals .