The Covid-19 pandemic have bring unprecedented challenge to state around the universe . In response to the outbreak , government have implement assorted policy to control the spread of the virus . These policy have range from travel restriction and social distancing measure to dissemble mandate and lockdown . The effectiveness of these policy in control the spread of Covid-19 have be a subject of much argument among policymakers , healthcare professional , and the general populace . One of the most normally enforced policy to control the spread of Covid-19 have be lockdown . lockdown involve the closing of non-essential business , school , and public space , equally well as restriction on social gathering and motion . lockdown have be effective in reduce the spread of the virus by restrict the opportunity for people to come into contact with one another . survey have show that state that implement rigorous lockdown measure early_on in the pandemic experience low rates of infection and mortality compare to those that make not . Another key policy that have be implement to control the spread of Covid-19 be mask mandate . wear mask have be show to be an effective manner to prevent the transmission of the virus , as it reduce the sum of respiratory droplet that be expel into the air . state that have mandate the erosion of mask in public space have see low rates of infection compare to those that have not . In addition , mask mandate have be show to be cost-efficient , as the cost of a mask be far low than the cost of treat a Covid-19 infection . travel restriction have besides be implement as a manner to control the spread of Covid-19 . These restriction have include prohibition on international travel , quarantine measure for traveler enter a state , and limit on domestic travel . travel restriction have be effective in prevent the importing of new case of Covid-19 from area with high infection rates . survey have show that state that implement travel restriction early_on in the pandemic experience low rates of infection compare to those that make not . In decision , the policy that have be implement to control the spread of Covid-19 have be effective in restrict the transmission of the virus and reduce the burden on healthcare system . lockdown , mask mandate , and travel restriction have all play a crucial function in decelerate the spread of the virus and prevent new outbreak . however , it be important to note that the effectiveness of these policy may change depend on factor such as conformity degree , population density , and the handiness of healthcare resource . As the pandemic continue to evolve , it be essential that policymakers continue to measure and adapt their scheme to guarantee the most effective response to Covid-19 .