violent cartoon have be a prevailing form of entertainment for child for decade . show and movie like Tom and Kraut , crazy tune , and power Texas_Ranger have be entertain child for coevals , but the effects of these violent cartoon on young viewing_audience have be a subject of much argument . many survey have be conduct to analyze the impact of violent cartoon on child . One of the chief concern be the desensitization to violence that may happen as a consequence of watch violent cartoon . child may become asleep to the violence they see on screen and may get_down to mimic violent behavior in their own life . This could lead to aggression towards others , equally well as a decrease in empathy and compassion for those who be ache . Another concern with violent cartoon be the consequence they can have on a child 's develop brain . research have show that exposure to violent medium can change the manner child procedure information and regulate their emotion . child who watch violent cartoon may have a difficult time distinguish between fantasy and world , lead to confusion about appropriate behavior in different situation . furthermore , violent cartoon can have negative effects on a child 's mental health . survey have show that child who watch violent medium be more likely to experience anxiety , depression , and other psychological problem . This could be due to the nerve-racking and dismay content that be frequently portray in violent cartoon . In addition to the negative effects on behavior and mental health , violent cartoon can besides have a damaging impact on a child 's academic performance . research have show that child who watch violent medium may have trouble concentrate in school , as their mind be preoccupy with the violent image they have see . This could lead to low class and trouble in learn . Despite these concern , some expert argue that not all child be negatively affect by violent cartoon . They argue that child who be raise in a stable and supportive environment may be better equip to process and understand the content of violent medium . Additionally , some research_worker believe that violent cartoon can actually have a cathartic consequence on child , let them to let_go_of pent-up emotion and frustration in a safe and controlled environment . In decision , the effects of violent cartoon on child be complex and multifaceted . While some child may be able to watch these show without any negative consequence , others may be more susceptible to the harmful effects of violent medium . parent and health_professional should be aware of the potential impact of violent cartoon on child and monitor their screening habit to guarantee they be not be adversely affect . It be important to strike a balance between let child to prosecute in entertainment they enjoy and guarantee that they be not be expose to content that could have damaging effects on their development and wellbeing .