In recent old_age , there have be a turn focus on the handiness and inclusivity of educational institution for disabled student . One cardinal aspect of this be the provision of adjustment by university to guarantee that disabled student have equal opportunity to succeed academically . This raise the question : Should universities supply adjustment to disable student ? The answer to this question be a resonant yes . supply adjustment to disabled student be not merely a legal requirement under the American with disability act ( adenosine_deaminase ) but besides a moral and ethical imperative_mood . All student , regardless of their physical or mental ability , deserve the same opportunity to learn and boom in a university setting . One of the chief argument in favor of supply adjustment to disabled student be that it degree the playing field and guarantee equal entree to education . Without adjustment such as accessible classroom , material in alternate format , assistive technology , and widen time for examination , disabled student may be at a disadvantage compare to their non-disabled peer . By supply these adjustment , university can help disabled student get_the_better_of barrier to learn and succeed in their academic pursuit . furthermore , supply adjustment to disabled student be not merely a matter of fairness but besides a matter of diverseness and inclusion . disabled student bring alone position and experience to the university community , and by guarantee that they have the support they necessitate to succeed , university can make a more divers and inclusive environment for all student . furthermore , by supply adjustment to disabled student , university be not merely carry_through their legal duty under the adenosine_deaminase but besides promote a culture of respect and handiness on campus . When university make an attempt to suit disabled student , they send a powerful message that they value diverseness and be perpetrate to guarantee that all student have the opportunity to reach their full potential . Some critic may argue that supply adjustment to disabled student be excessively dearly-won or burdensome for university . however , the truth be that adjustment for disabled student be frequently relatively low-cost and easy to implement . additionally , the benefit of supply adjustment far outweigh any potential costs , as they lend to a more inclusive and welcome campus environment for all student . In decision , university should supply adjustment to disabled student in order to guarantee equal entree to education , promote diverseness and inclusion , and continue their legal duty under the adenosine_deaminase . By make so , university can make a more inclusive and supportive environment for all student , regardless of their physical or mental ability . supply adjustment to disabled student be not merely the right thing to make , but it besides benefit the entire university community by foster a culture of respect and handiness .