terrorism be a turn global issue that have have lay_waste_to effects on innocent life and society around the universe . Despite attempt by government and organization to battle terrorism , the number of terrorist attack continue to rise . assorted event and experience have be identify as potential cause for the addition in terrorism . One of the chief contributing factor to the rise in terrorism be the influence of extremist political_orientation . extremist group such as Isis and al-Qaeda have successfully enroll person who believe in their extremist political_orientation and be willing to transport out Acts_of_the_Apostles of violence in the name of their cause . These group frequently target vulnerable person who may feel marginalize or disenfranchise , offer them a sense of belonging and aim through their extremist belief . additionally , the prevalence of social and political agitation in many parts of the universe have make fertile land for the recruitment of person by terrorist group . In region where conflict and instability be widespread , terrorist organization be able to exploit the chaos and recruit person who may feel helpless or marginalize in their society . This be particularly apparent in state such as Syria and Afghanistan , where ongoing conflict have lead to the radicalization of person who feel they have nowhere else to turn . Furthermore , the proliferation of social medium and online platform have play a significant function in the addition of terrorism . extremist group be able to spread their propaganda and recruit following through the internet , reach a global audience with relative ease . The anonymity supply by the on-line universe let person to connect with like-minded person and receive encouragement and support for their extremist belief . Another factor that have lend to the rise in terrorism be the prevalence of foreign intervention in assorted region of the universe . Foreign military intervention have frequently result in civilian casualty and increase resentment towards the intervening state , supply terrorist group with a recruitment tool to attract person who may be seek retaliation or retribution . In decision , the addition in terrorism be a complex issue that be influence by a assortment of event and experience . From the influence of extremist political_orientation to social and political instability , the reason for the rise in terrorism be multifaceted . address these root cause and implement effective scheme to counter the spread of terrorism be crucial in battle this global menace and guarantee the safety and security of person around the universe .