The decision of the United kingdom to leave the European union , besides know as Brexit , on June 23 , 2016 , be a historical moment that have have far-reaching deduction not merely for the United_Kingdom but besides for the europium and the global economy . The reason behind this decision be change and complex , with economic , political , and social factor all play a function in determine the result of the referendum . One of the chief reason for the United_Kingdom 's decision to leave the europium be sovereignty . advocate of Brexit argue that the europium 's system of administration , with its supranational institution and regulation , sabotage the United_Kingdom 's sovereignty and ability to make independent decision . many Britisher felt that the europium be become excessively powerful and that decision be be make in Bruxelles that be not in the best interest of the United_Kingdom . They believe that leave the europium would let the United_Kingdom to recover control over its Torah , boundary_line , and trade policy . Another significant factor in the decision to leave the europium be immigration . The europium 's principle of free motion of people mean that citizen of europium member state have the right to populate and work in the United_Kingdom . This lead to concern about the impact of immigration on occupation , wages , and public services . many people in the United_Kingdom felt that leave the europium would enable the government to recover control over immigration and reduce the number of immigrant come to the state . economic consideration besides play a function in the decision to leave the europium . supporter of Brexit argue that the United_Kingdom would be better off economically outside of the europium , as it would have more freedom to negociate its own trade agreement and put its own regulation . They believe that leave the europium would let the United_Kingdom to be more competitive on the global phase and attract more investing . however , opposition of Brexit warn that leave the europium would have negative economic consequence , such as a downturn in trade , investing , and occupation losings . furthermore , there be a sense of disenchantment among many people in the United_Kingdom with the europium and its institution . The europium be see as distant , bureaucratic , and out of touch with the concern of ordinary citizen . The Brexit referendum be see as an opportunity for the British people to express their dissatisfaction with the status quo and demand change . In decision , the decision of the United_Kingdom to leave the europium be a consequence of a combination of factor , include concern about sovereignty , immigration , economics , and disenchantment with the europium . The result of the Brexit referendum have have profound deduction for the United_Kingdom and the europium , and it stay to be see how the two party will voyage their future relationship in the post-Brexit era .