Events and experiences that are contributing to the rise in terrorism are varied and complex. This research essay will examine several key factors that are believed to be driving this increase in terrorist activities. 

One significant event that has been identified as a catalyst for terrorism is the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003. This military intervention destabilized the region and created a power vacuum that was exploited by extremist groups such as ISIS. The brutal tactics employed by ISIS, including beheadings and mass executions, have drawn recruits from around the world who are disillusioned with Western intervention in the Middle East.

In addition to military interventions, economic factors also play a role in the recruitment of terrorists. High levels of poverty and unemployment in many countries provide fertile ground for extremist ideologies to take root. The lack of economic opportunities can lead to feelings of alienation and despair among young people, making them more susceptible to radicalization.

Another significant factor contributing to the increase in terrorism is the spread of extremist ideologies through the internet and social media. Platforms such as Twitter and Facebook have been used by terrorist organizations to recruit new members and disseminate propaganda. The use of encrypted messaging apps like Telegram and WhatsApp has made it more difficult for law enforcement agencies to monitor and disrupt terrorist activities.

Furthermore, the rise of nationalist and populist movements in Western countries has exacerbated tensions between different religious and ethnic groups. This has created an "us versus them" mentality that can fuel extremist ideologies and lead to acts of violence. The rhetoric used by political leaders to demonize minority groups can also contribute to a sense of grievance and victimization among marginalized communities.

In conclusion, it is clear that there are multiple factors at play in the increase of terrorism around the world. Military interventions, economic deprivation, the spread of extremist ideologies online, and the rise of nationalist movements all contribute to creating a fertile environment for terrorism to thrive. It is important for policymakers to address these root causes in order to effectively combat the threat of terrorism. By addressing the underlying grievances that drive individuals to commit acts of violence, we can hope to reduce the prevalence of terrorism in the future.

References:

1. Piazza, J. A. (2016). Poverty, minority economic discrimination, and domestic terrorism. The Journal of Politics, 78(3), 976-990.

2. Jenkins, B. M. (2009). Would-be warriors: incidents of jihadist terrorist radicalization in the United States since September 11, 2001. Rand Corporation.

3. Gurr, T. (2018). Why men rebel. Routledge.