Men and women have been at odds with each other since the beginning of time. It's like we're just programmed to annoy each other. As a woman, I can confidently say that there are certain things guys do that make us want to pull our hair out. From leaving the toilet seat up to chewing with their mouths open, guys are just experts at pushing our buttons. So, without further ado, here are some of the things guys do that girls hate.

Let's start with the classic, leaving the toilet seat up. Seriously, how hard is it to just put it back down? It's like they're trying to test our patience. I can't tell you how many times I've almost fallen into the toilet because some guy couldn't be bothered to put the seat down. It's a simple concept, guys. Put the seat down.

Another thing that drives girls crazy is when guys don't listen to us. We could be telling them about our day or how we're feeling, and it's like they're in their own little world. It's like talking to a brick wall. Guys, take note: listening is key to a successful relationship.

And don't even get me started on guys who chew with their mouths open. It's like they think it's cool or something. News flash: it's not. No one wants to see the half-chewed food in your mouth. It's gross and it's rude. So, please, for the love of all that is good and holy, chew with your mouth closed.

One thing that really grinds my gears is when guys try to be macho. You know the type: always trying to one-up everyone and never admitting when they're wrong. It's like they have something to prove. News flash, guys: it's okay to show vulnerability. It doesn't make you any less of a man.

And let's not forget the guys who think it's funny to make sexist jokes. It's 2021, guys. Time to update your humor. Women are just as capable as men, and we don't appreciate being the butt of your outdated jokes.

But probably the biggest thing guys do that girls hate is not putting the effort into the relationship. It's like they think just because they snagged us, they don't have to do anything to keep us. News flash, guys: relationships take work. It's not all rainbows and butterflies. So, put in the effort and show us you care.

So, there you have it. A list of things guys do that girls hate. From leaving the toilet seat up to not listening, guys have a knack for driving us crazy. But at the end of the day, we still love them. Just maybe a little less when they do these things.