Clowns are supposed to be funny, right? That's what they want us to believe. But let's be real for a minute here - clowns are actually really freaking scary. And no, I'm not just talking about movies like "It" or "Killer Klowns from Outer Space." I'm talking about real-life clowns that you might see at a birthday party or circus. They're creepy as hell.

First of all, let's talk about their makeup. Who in their right mind thought it would be a good idea to paint their face white, put on a big red nose, and draw on a smile that looks more like a grimace? It's like they're trying to hide something sinister underneath all that grease paint. And don't even get me started on their oversized shoes and rainbow-colored wigs. What are they trying to distract us from with all that ridiculousness?

And then there's their behavior. Clowns are always doing weird stuff like squirting people with water, honking horns in your face, and making bizarre balloon animals. Like, who even came up with the idea that making a poodle out of a long balloon is entertaining? It's just plain creepy. And why do they always have to talk in that high-pitched, squeaky voice? It's like they're trying to sound like they're from another planet or something.

But the scariest thing about clowns is their unpredictability. You never know what they're going to do next. They could be making jokes one minute and then suddenly turn into a raging monster the next. And let's not forget about their love for pranks. Clowns are notorious for pulling off elaborate and sometimes dangerous pranks that can leave you scarred for life. It's like they get some sick pleasure out of scaring the living daylights out of innocent bystanders.

Now, I know some people will argue that clowns are just misunderstood and that they're actually trying to spread joy and laughter. But come on, let's be honest here - clowns are scary as hell. And it's not just me saying this. There have been countless studies and surveys done that show that the majority of people find clowns to be more terrifying than funny. So, if you're one of those rare individuals who actually enjoys the company of clowns, then more power to you. But for the rest of us normal folk, we'll be keeping our distance from those creepy jesters.

In conclusion, clowns are definitely scarier than funny. From their creepy makeup and bizarre behavior to their unpredictable nature and love for pranks, there's just no denying that clowns are nightmare-inducing. So the next time you see a clown at a birthday party or circus, just remember to steer clear and protect yourself from their terrifying antics. Trust me, it's for your own safety.