The great war also known as world war i was one of the most deadly conflicts in human history. It lasted from 1914 to 1918 and involved most of the great powers of the time, leading to the deaths of millions of soldiers and civilians. The events that led to world war i were complex and multifaceted involving a combination of longstanding rivalries alliances and imperial ambitions. In this essay we will explore some of the key events that contributed to world war i. One of the primary factors that led to World War I was the system of alliances that had developed in Europe in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The two major alliances that emerged were the triple entente composed of france russia and the united kingdom and the triple alliance composed of germany austria-hungary and italy. These alliances were formed in an attempt to preserve the power balance in europe but they ended up creating a situation in which a conflict involving one member of the alliance could quickly escalate into a more significant war. Another important factor that contributed to world war i was the extreme nationalism that at the time was prevalent in europe. Nationalistic fervor led to the desire for territorial expansion which increased tensions between the great powers. This was particularly evident in the balkans where the decline of the ottoman empire and the desire for independence among various ethnic groups led to a series of conflicts that ultimately led to the assassination of archduke franz ferdinand of austria. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand was the immediate trigger for the outbreak of World War I. The archduke's assassination by gavrilo princip a bosnian serb nationalist set off a chain of events that led to austria-hungary declaring war on serbia which in turn led russia to mobilize. This in turn prompted germany to declare war on russia and its ally france causing a domino effect which quickly engulfed much of europe in conflict. The united states' entry into world war i in 1917 was another critical event that helped to tip the balance in favor of the allies. The sinking of the lusitania in 1915 by a german submarine and the uncovered zimmermann telegram in 1917 in which germany proposed an alliance with mexico against the united states helped to turn american public opinion against germany and prepared the way for america's. In conclusion, the events that led to World War I were numerous and complex, involving a combination of alliances, nationalistic fervor, and the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The war eventually led to the downfall of the great empires of europe and set the stage for much more devastating conflict of the 20th century.